>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
FEBRUARY 2nd, CONCILIATORY TAL
FROM IRAN.
WHAT'S BEHIND ALL THE FINANCIA
MARKET TURMOIL AND WHAT MIGHT BE
AHEAD.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT FRO
HAWAII, A GET SOFT PROGRAM
KEEPING PRISONERS OUT OF PRISON.
>> I THOUGHT ABOUT THE WAY I WAS
RAISED, THE WAY MY WIFE AND
WERE TRYING TO RAISE OUR SON
YOU TELL THEM WHAT THE FAMIL
RULES ARE.
IF THERE'S MISBEHAVIOR, YOU DO
SOMETHING IMMEDIATELY.
>>> AND THE DEATH OF PHILI
SEYMOUR HOFFMAN, NEXT ON PBS
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK
HARI SREENIVASAN
>> THANKS FOR JOINING US, NE
CONCILIATORY SIGNALS FROM IRAN
TODAY AFTER A PRIVATE MEETIN
WITH SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY, THE IRANIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER SAID IT WOULD B
QUOTING, A DISASTER IF THE
NUCLEAR DEAL BETWEEN THE WESTERN
POWERS AND IRAN DIDN'T BECOM
PERMANENT.
UNDER THE INTERIM DEAL IRA
AGREED TO FREEZE ITS MOS
SENSITIVE NUCLEAR OPERATIONS I
EXCHANGE FOR THE WEST EASING A
SMALL PORTION OF ECONOMI
SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN
SPEAKING AT AN INTERNATIONAL
SECURITY CONFERENCE IN MUNICH,
GERMANY, HE SAID GOOD RELATION
BETWEEN IRAN AND THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AR
ESSENTIAL FOR THE LONGER TER
DEAL TO GET DONE
>> THAT CAN IN AND OF ITSELF B
THE BEST GUARANTEE THAT IT WOULD
BE FOOLISH SHOULD WE DECIDE TO
BREAK AWAY FROM.
I THINK THE OPPORTUNITY IS
THERE.
I THINK THIS IS A HISTORIC
OPPORTUNITY.
I THINK WE NEED TO SIEZE IT.
I THINK IF WE DON'T, IF WE WOR
ON THE BASIS OF ILLUSION, WE
WILL REGRET IT IN THE DAYS AND
YEARS TO COME.
>>> PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU CALLED BOYCOTT
AGAINST HIS COUNTRY IMMORAL AN
UNJUST AND SAID THEY WOULDN'
ACHIEVE THEIR GOAL
YESTERDAY SECRETARY OF STATE
KERRY SAID THE RISK OF BOYCOTT
AGAINST ISRAEL WOULD INTENSIFY
IF THE LATEST EFFORTS TO REACH
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THAT COUNTRY
AND PALESTINE WOULD FAIL: IN
SYRIA TODAY THE GOVERNMENT
RENEWED ITS BOMBING CAMPAIGN I
THE NORTHERN CITY OF ALEPPO.
THIS WAS OBTAINED ON A SOCIA
MEDIA WEBSITE.
THE AUTHENTICITY COULD NOT B
CONFIRMED.
THE HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP SAID AT
LEAST 33 PEOPLE WERE KILLE
THERE IN THE SYRIAN MILITARY
BOMBING ATTACKS YESTERDAY.
>>> DESPITE MONTHS O
ANTI-GOVERNMENT DEMONSTRATIONS
THAILAND WENT AHEAD WITH
PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS TO DAY
THERE WERE NO MAJOR INCIDENTS OF
VIOLENCE REPORTED.
THOUGH RESULTS HAVE YET TO B
ANNOUNCED, THE CURRENT
GOVERNMENT IS EXPECTED TO REMAIN
IN POWER
THE MAIN OPPOSITION PART
BOYCOTTED THE ELECTION
>>> FROM AFRICA TONIGHT, WOR
THAT THE FIGHTING IN SOUTH SUDAN
IS CAUSING A FOOD CRISIS FOR
MILLIONS IN THAT COUNTRY
THE U.N. SAYS AN ESTIMATED 3.7
MILLION PEOPLE ARE IN DIRE NEE
OF FOOD.
THE GOVERNMENT AND REBELS SIGNED
A CEASEFIRE IN LATE JANUARY, BUT
FIGHTING CONTINUES
THE CONFLICT HAS KILLE
THOUSANDS AND DISPLACED MORE
THAN 800,000 PEOPLE OR A THIRD
OF THE COUNTRY'S POPULATION.
SOUTH SUDAN WON ITS INDEPENDENCE
IN 2011.
>>> NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR CHRI
CHRISTIE FIRED BACK AT DAVID
WILDSTEIN.
WILDSTEIN SAYING CHRISTIE KNEW
ABOUT THE BRIDGE CLOSING WHILE
IT WAS HAPPENING
LATE YESTERDAY THE GOVERNOR'
OFFICE ISSUED A STATEMENT SAYING
DAVID WILDSTEIN WILL DO AND SA
ANYTHING TO SAVE DAVID
WILDSTEIN.
THE GOVERNOR INSISTED HE LEARNED
AFTER THE INCIDENT ONLY AFTER IT
WAS OVER
>>> THE ACCLAIMED ACADEMY AWAR
WINNING ACTOR PHILIP SEYMOUR
HOFFMAN WAS FOUND DEAD IN HI
APARTMENT.
HE WAS 46 YEARS OLD.
AUTHORITIES SUSPECT HE DIED OF A
DRUG OVERDOSE.
ACCORDING TO PUBLISHED REPOR
HOFFMAN WAS TREATED FOR DRUG
PROBLEMS INCLUDING HEROIN US
LAST YEAR.
HE HAD A NUMBER OF STARRIN
ROLES ON BROADWAY INCLUDING TH
2012 PRODUCTION OF "DEATH OF A
SALESMAN."
ONE OF HIS EARLIEST FILM ROLES
WAS IN "SCENT OF A WOMAN."
>> IN THE FINAL SCENE WHEN THE
BELLHOP TOLD MANY HAD A PHON
CALL AND IT WAS MY STEPFATHE
CALLING TO SAY MY MOTHER HAD
DIED
I FLEW HOME TO NEW YORK,
TERRIBLY DISTRAUGHT.
WHEN I GOT TO THE APARTMENT, I
COULD SEE THAT JOE WAS IN EVEN
WORSE SHAPE THAN I WAS
HE GRABBED MY HAND AND HE SAID
TO ME, TALK.
>>> IT WAS ONLY FIVE WEEKS AGO
THAT MOST ANALYSTS WER
PREDICTING THAT 2014 WOULD B
OOD GOOD YEAR FOR WALL STREE
INVESTORS FOLLOWING LAST YEAR'
HUGE RUN-UP.
IN JANUARY THE DOW TURNED IN ITS
WORST PERFORMANCE IN MORE THAN A
YEAR AND A HALF.
AS FEBRUARY TRADING GETS UNDER
WAY, THERE ARE CONCERNS THAT
TURMOIL OVERSEAS AND THE
CONTINUING ROLL BACK OF TH
STIMULUS PROGRAM WILL CONTINUE
TO ROYAL U.S. MARKETS.
FOR MORE ABOUT ALL THIS, WE'RE
JOINED FROM RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
BY ROBIN FAR SAAD OF BLOOMBERG
LET'S START WITH DOMESTIC AN
FOREIGN.
DOMESTIC T TRANSITION OF POWER
THE FED CHAIRMAN CHANGING OVER
WHY DOES THAT MATTER
>> BECAUSE THE FED HAS BEEN TH
PLAYER IN THE MARKETS FOR TH
PAST FIVE YEARS.
AN EXTRAORDINARY AMOUNT OF
STIMULUS, ALMOST $4 TRILLION O
QUAUCHBT THEYIVE EASING IN
ADDITION TO INTEREST RATES BEING
AT NIL
SO THE WORLD IS TRYING TO GE
ITS HEAD AROUND THIS IDEA OF BEN
BERNANKE, HE'S NOW CAN BEACH I
COZUMEL AND JANET YELLEN I
TAKING OFF MONDAY A.M. AND
EVERYBODY IS ON INTOER HOOKS
IT'S NOT JUST THE UNITED STATE
THAT'S BEEN THE BENEFICIARY,
IT'S BEEN THE EMERGING ECONOMIES
AS WELL.
>> JANET YELLEN HAS A DIFFICUL
TASK TO WEAN THE WORLD OFF O
THIS
>> I USE THE METAPHOR OF
WRESTLING THE BONES FROM THE
DOG'S MOUTH.
NO ONE CAN REMEMBER THE LAST
TIME MONEY COST SOMETHING.
THE U.S. HAS BEEN AT ZER
INTEREST RATES FOR SO LONG, YO
COULD GET MORTGAGE RATES FOR
NEXT TO NOTHING, BUY JUNK BONDS,
EMERGING MARKET STOCKS AND
DEBTS.
NOW THE MORNING AFTER, WE'RE I
STAGE ONE OF WITHDRAWING THE
STIMULUS, BRIPGING DOWN QE
ULTIMATELY THE FED IS GOING TO
HAVE TO HIKE INTEREST RATES.
WHAT WILL THE MORNING AFTER LOOK
LIKE
>> PAINT THAT CONNECTION FOR US.
SWI WHAT'S HAPPENING HERE AT THE
FED CONNECTED TO WHAT'
HAPPENING IN ARGENTINA AND ITS
CURRENCY
>> EVERYTHING IS TIED TO THE
INTEREST RATE THAT'S EFFECTIVE
IN THE UNITED STATES
THE TEN-YEAR BORROWING RATE.
THE FED CONTROLS SHORT-TER
INTEREST RATES
IF MONEY IS CHEAP, INTERNATIONAL
INVESTORS ARE BOUND TO G
ELSEWHERE, EXOTIC PLACES I
ORDER TO GRAB YIELDS
WHEN THOSE OPPORTUNITIES ARE
MAXED OUT, THEY'LL GO TO EVE
MORE EXOTIC PLACES
SUB SAHARAN AFRICA, TH
PHILIPPINES, VIETNAM AND
EVERYBODY HAS GOTTEN SO USED T
THE FACT OOPSZ THAT YOU CA
BORROW U.S. DOLLARS FOR CLOSE TO
NOTHING AND PUT THEM IN OTHE
CURRENCIES
THIS HAS BEEN PROBLEMATIC FO
OTHER ECONOMIES WHO CAN'T DEAL
WITH THAT INFLUX OF HOT MONEY.
IF YOU GET USED TO IT AND TH
HOT MONEY ROLLS BACK WHEN IT
REALIZES IT'S GOING TO THE
UNITED STATES WHEN INTERES
RATES MIGHT GO UP, IT'
WHIPLASHING FOR MARKETS LIKE
INDIA, BRAZIL.
YOU SEE THE UKRAINE HAVING
POLITICAL VIOLENCE
TURKEY IS TRYING TO GET ITS HEAD
AROUND WHAT THE UNITED STATES IS
GOING TO LOOK LIKE FROM
MONETARY PERSPECTIVE
>> HELP US UNDERSTAND, WHY DOE
WHAT HAPPENS IN ALL THES
EMERGING MARKETS CONNECT BACK TO
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THE U.S.
STOCK MARKET
IS IT BECAUSE ALL THESE THINGS
ARE HAPPENING AT THE SAME TIME
IS THAT UNPRECEDENTED?
>> IT'S LIKE THE OLD NEW YOR
TELEPHONE JINGLE, WE'RE AL
CONNECTED.
IT'S KIND OF A TOM FRIEDMA
MANTRA, THE WORLD IS FLAT.
IF THERE'S A REVERBERATION IN
PLACE LIKE ARGENTINA O
VENEZUELA.
THERE'S RIOTING, LOOTING I
ARGENTINA HAS A TRAUMATIC DEBT
DEFAELT, HOW DOES THAT RECOURS
TO CHINA WHICH IS ONE OF THE
BIGGEST FINANCIAL SPONSORS O
UNITED STATES SPENDING
IF CHINA ISSIC THAT EN ONLINE OR
GROWTH IS WEAKER THERE, HOW DOES
THAT AFFECT ALL THE OTHE
SMALLER ASIAN NATIONS THAT ORBIT
CHINA?
THE UNITED STATES IS NO ISLAND
THIS IS NO CRISIS LIKE WE HAD IN
THE LATE '90s WHERE EMERGING
MARKETS WERE BLOWING UP LEFT AND
RIGHT AND THE UNITED STATES WA
THE STRONG ONE
WE'VE NEVER BEEN S
INTERCONNECTED AND DEPENDENT A
WE ARE NOW
>> ROBIN FAR ZAG FROM BLOOMBER
BUSINESS, THANKS SO MUCH
>> MY PLEASURE
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT WE RETURN TO HAWAII TO
REPORT ON A PROGRAM THAT BEGAN
LOCALLY, BUT IS NOW EXPANDIN
ACROSS THE NATION THANKS TO IT
SUCCESS.
IT'S CALLED HOPE
AND IT'S DESIGNED TO KEE
PROBATIONERS OUT OF PRISON
THAT'S A PRIORITY IN STATE
WHERE HOUSING INMATES IS S
EXPENSIVE.
PROBATION IS MEANT TO KEEP
OFFENDERS ON THE STRAIGHT AN
NARROW WITHOUT LOCKING THEM UP
FOR LONG PERIODS OF TIME
IT DOESN'T OFTEN WORK OUT THAT
WAY.
A JUDGE IN HAWAII TRIE
SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
MEGAN THOMPSON'S REPORT FIRS
AIRED IN NOVEMBER.
>> SINCE I CAN'T CONTROL WHA
YOU'RE GOING TO DORKS I CA
CONTROL WHAT I'M GOING TO DO
WHAT THAT MEANS, IN THE FUTURE
IF YOU VIOLATE ANY OF TH
CONDITIONS OF PROBATION, YOU CAN
COUNT ON ME GIVING YOU JAI
TIME
>> Reporter: THIS ISN'T THE WA
THINGS USED TO BE.
WHEN JUDGE STEPHEN AL WA
ASSIGNED TO A FELONY COURTROOM
IN HONOLULU IN 2004.
HE SAW JUDGES ROUTINELY WARNIN
OFFENDERS TO FOLLOW THE RULES OF
PROBATION.
PROBATIONERS JUST AS ROUTINELY
IGNORING THOSE WARNINGS.
>> AT SENTENCING THE JUDGE SAY
NO DRUGS, YOU HAVE TO SEE YOUR
PROBATION OFF SECTION YOU HAVE
TO PAY YOUR RESTITUTION.
AND THEN IN THE REAL WORLD, THEY
GO OUT AND VIOLATE THOSE
CONDITIONS AND TYPICALLY THERE'S
NO CONSEQUENCE
>> Reporter: NO CONSEQUENC
BECAUSE THE ONLY THREAT WA
YEARS IN PRISON.
BUT THAT THREAT WAS USUALLY ONLY
CARRIED OUT AFTER DOZENS O
VIOLATIONS OVER MONTHS OR YEARS.
>> AND I THOUGHT WHAT A CRAZ
WAY TO TRY TO CHANGE ANYBODY'S
BEHAVIOR
>> Reporter: PEOPLE JUST AREN'
REFORMING?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Reporter: THEY'RE NOT GETTING
BETTER
>> THEY'RE GETTING WORSE
>> Reporter: JUDGE AL, A FORME
CITY PROSECUTOR AND U.S.
ATTORNEY WITH A REPUTATION A
ONE OF THE COURT'S TOUGHES
SENTENCERS WASN'T HAVING IT.
HE DECIDED TO TRY A DIFFEREN
APPROACH, HIS APPROACH BASED O
HIS EXPERIENCE AS A FATHER
>> I THOUGHT TO MYSELF WHA
WOULD WORK TO CHANGE BEHAVIOR.
I THOUGHT OF THE WAY I WAS
RAISED, THE WAY MY WIFE AND
WERE TRYING TO RAISE OUR SON
YOUR TELL THEM THE FAMILY RULES.
AND IF THERE'S MISBEHAVIOR, YO
DO SOMETHING IMMEDIATELY
SWIFT AND CERTAIN IS WHAT'
GOING TO GET PEOPLE'S ATTENTIO
AND HELP THEM TIE TOGETHER BAD
BEHAVIOR WITH A CONSEQUENCE AN
LEARN FROM IT.
>> DO YOU NEED TO SIT IN JAI
ANY LONGER TO REALIZE HO
SERIOUSLY WE'RE GOING TO TAK
ALL THIS STUFF
>> Reporter: DESPITE ALL THE
TOUGH TALK, HE CALLED HIS NE
PROGRAM H.O.P.E.
IT STANDS FOR HAWAII OPPORTUNITY
PROBATION WITH ENFORCEMENT
JUDGE ALL WORKED WITH TH
PROBATION SUPERVISOR, PUBLIC
DEFENDER AND LAW ENFORCEMENT T
INSTITUTE NEW PROCEDURES WHICH
WERE PRETTY SIMPLE
IF ANY PROBATIONER VIOLATED TH
RULES, THEY WOULD BE PUNISHE
IMMEDIATELY.
>> IN SOME WAYS H.O.P.E. I
PARENTING 101.
A LOT OF THE FOLKS IN TH
PROGRAM I THINK GREW UP IN
FAMILIES WHERE THERE WASN'T
LOT OF STRUCTURE, THERE WASN'T A
LOT OF TIE-IN BETWEEN BEHAVIOR
AND CONSEQUENCE, SO THEY DIDN'
HAVE A CHANCE TO LEARN FROM IT
>> MAKE SURE YOU CALL TH
HOTLINE EVERY WEEKDAY MORNING.
>> Reporter: THE H.O.P.E
PROGRAM TARGETS PROBATIONERS
WITH HIGHEST RISK OF BREAKIN
THE RULES.
AL ESTIMATES ABOUT 80% OF THEM
ABUSE DRUGS AND ALCOHOL.
UNLIKE REGULAR PROBATION WHERE
OFFENDERS CAN ANTICIPATE A DRU
TEST, THE TESTS ARE FREQUENT AND
RANDOM
PROBATIONERS ARE ASSIGNED
CALLER AND NUMBER.
>> TODAY'S COLOR ARE BLUE IS
TWO, GREEN IS THREE.
IF THEIR COLOR AND NUMBER AR
CALLED, THEY MUST REPORT BY 2:00
P.M., NO EXCUSES
SHORT JAIL STAYS, SOMETIMES JUST
A FEW DAYS LONG ARE IMMEDIATEL
IMPOSED FOR POSITIVE DRUG TEST
AND OTHER VIOLATIONS LIK
MISSING APPOINTMENTS
BUT THERE IS SOME LEEWAY HERE.
>> ANYBODY WHO SHOWS UP ATTEST
DIRTY AND ADMITS TO IT I
TELLING ME THAT, YOU KNOW,
THEY'RE HAVING PROBLEMS, THE
MESSED UP, BUT THEY'RE TAKIN
RESPONSIBILITY FOR IT.
I UNDERSTAND THAT.
I'M GOING TO REFLECT THAT BY
ONLY GIVING YOU A COUPLE DAYS IN
JAIL
WE'RE GOING TO WORK WITH YOU O
THAT
>> Reporter: THE SEEMINGLY
SIMPLE REFORMS IN HAWAII SOO
PRODUCED REMARKABLE RESULTS.
AN ARM OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE FUNDED A STUDY FIVE
YEARS AFTER THE PROGRA
LAUNCHED
THAT STUDY FOUND THAT COMPARED
TO PEOPLE OF REGULAR PROBATION
H.O.P.E. PROBATIONERS WERE HAL
AS LIKELY TO BE ARRESTED FOR NEW
CRIMES OR HAVE PROBATION
REVOKED.
THEY ENDED UP SPENDING HALF AS
MUCH TIME IN PRISON AND WERE 72%
LESS LIKELY TO USE DRUGS
THE RESULT IFS HAWAII CAUGHT THE
ATTENTION OF CRIMINAL JUSTIC
EXPERTS ACROSS THE NATION.
>> WHEN I FIRST ENCOUNTERED TH
H.O.P.E. MODEL, I WAS SKEPTICAL.
MOST CRIMINOLOGISTS ARE.
>> Reporter:ED TO CLEAR IS A
EXPERT ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE A
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY IN NE
JERSEY
HE SAID SHE WAS SKEPTICA
BECAUSE OLD MODELS USUALLY DON'T
WORK BECAUSE THE THREATS WER
TOO BIG AND NEVER CARRIED OUT.
BUT H.O.P.E. HE SAYS, DOES THE
EXACT OPPOSITE
>> WHAT THEY'VE DONE WITH TH
H.O.P.E. MODEL HAS BEEN TO
RATCHET DOWN THE LEVEL O
PENALTY SO THAT IT'S SOMETHING
YOU CAN ACTUALLY AFFORD TO D
AND THEN RATCHET UP TH
LIKELIHOOD THAT IF YOU ENGAGE IN
CONDUCT, YOU WILL EXPERIENCE THE
PENALTY.
>> Reporter: IT'S SEEN AS FAIR
BY THE OFFENDERS
>> RAPID RESPONSES THAT AR
REASONABLE, THAT ARE UNDERSTOO
TO BE REASONABLE, THAT THE
PERSON UNDERSTANDS WHAT IS
HAPPENING AND WHY IT WAS
HAPPENING, HAVE A BEHAVIOR
SHAPING, BEHAVIOR CHANGING
CAPACITY
>> Reporter: H.O.P.E.'S SUCCES
IN STEERING OFFENDERS AWAY FRO
PRISON WAS SO PROMISING, THA
PROGRAMS MODELED AFTER IT HAVE
LAUNCHED IN COURTROOMS IN 17
OTHER STATES
WASHINGTON STATE, FOR EXAMPLE,
PUT ITS ENTIRE PAROLE AN
PROBATION POPULATION INTO IT
VERSION OF H.O.P.E. AND TH
FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF JUSTIC
HAS LAUNCHED H.O.P.E. PROGRAMS
IN COMMUNITIES IN FOUR STATES.
HERE IN HONOLULU THE PROGRAM I
WORKING FOR PEOPLE LIKE JOHN WHO
WAS PICKED UP IN 2006 FO
RESISTING ARREST AND POSSESSIO
OF METHAMPHETAMINES.
HIS CASE WAS REPRESENTATIVE OF
LARGER PROBLEMS THAT HAWAI
STRUGGLES WITH, HIGH METH US
AND DISPROPORTIONATE
INCARCERATION RATES.
FIRST HE WAS PUT IN PROBATION.
FOR YEARS HE REPEATEDLY MISSED
DRUG TESTS AND DIDN'T REPORT
>> I WASN'T READY TO GIVE UP
DRUGS AND ALCOHOL.
>> Reporter: IN 2009, HI
FRUSTRATED PROBATION OFFICER PUT
HIM IN THE H.O.P.E. PROGRAM.
>> AT FIRST I DIDN'T LIKE HIM.
>> Reporter: WHY NOT
>> HE KEPT PUTTING ME BACK I
JAIL
>> Reporter: WITHIN MONTHS JUDGE
ALM SLAPPED HIM WITH A SHORT
DRUG STAY FOR A DIRTY DRUG TEST.
THEN THE CALLS
>> WHEN I HAD TO START CALLING
THE COLOR ON THE DAILY BASIS
THAT'S WHEN IT STARTED TURNING
AROUND IN MY LIFE.
>> Reporter: WHY
>> BECAUSE I NEEDED TO B
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THOSE TIMES THAT
I CALL
IT WAS TOTALLY UP TO ME TO MAK
THE RIGHT DECISION, WHETHER
WANT TO GO BACK TO JAIL OR I
WANT TO JUST HAVE FREEDOM.
>> Reporter: WAS THAT THE FIRS
TIME IN YOUR LIFE THAT YOU WER
REALLY BEING HELD ACCOUNTABLE?
>> OH, TOTALLY, TOTALLY.
>> Reporter: AFTER REPEATE
VIOLATIONS AND JAIL STAYS, H
SAYS HE FINALLY LEARNED HI
LESSON
HE COLLECTED INTO A DRUG
TREATMENT PROGRAM IN 2012 AN
HAS BEEN SOBER FOR MORE THAN A
YEAR
HE GRADUATED FROM H.O.P.E. LAS
SUMMER
>> AS LONG AS YOU WORRY ABOU
YOURSELF, YOU'RE GOING TO BE ALL
RIGHT.
>> Reporter: TODAY HE'S A MENTOR
TO OTHERS WHO STRUGGLE WIT
SUBSTANCE ABUSE.
YOU'RE WORKING WITH PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN ENGAGED IN PRETT
SERIOUS BEHAVIOR THAT COULD SEND
THEM TO PRISON FOR YEARS
BUT WITH THE THREAT OF JUST
FEW DAYS IN JAIL, THEY'R
SHAPING UP
>> IT'S THE DISRUPTIVE NATURE OF
THIS PROGRAM
IT'S NOT SOMETHING BAD MIGHT
HAPPEN YEARS DOWN THE ROAD
IT'S YOU'RE GOING TO JAIL TODAY.
THAT WILL CAUSE THEM TO CHANGE
>> Reporter: JUDGE ALM SAY IT IS
PROGRAM CAN HELP SAVE TAXPAYER
BIG TIME
A PROBATION ON H.O.P.E. COST
ABOUT $1500 A YEAR
PRISON IN HAWAII COSTS AROUN
$46,000.
CRITICS SAY THE SWIFT SANCTION
COME AT A COST
THE STRICTER RULES MEAN MORE
WORK FOR PROBATION OFFICERS AN
DRUG TESTERS, MOSH STRAIN ON THE
LOCAL JAIL AND A BIGGER WORKLOAD
ON THE HONOLULU POLICE
>> IT'S TAXING THE CRIMINA
JUSTICE SYSTEM LAW ENFORCEMENT
AND BEING ABLE TO LOOK FOR THEM,
BEING ABLE TO BRING THEM BACK.
>> Reporter: HONOLULU CITY
PROSECUTOR SAYS JUDGES SHOUL
PUT MORE PEOPLE IN PRISON FROM
THE START.
HE THINKS H.O.P.E. KEEPS
OFFENDERS ON PLOE BAGS TOO LON
AND ALLOWS TOO MANY CHANCES.
>> WHAT KIND OF CONSEQUENCES D
WE HAVE FOR THIS PROBATIONER IN.
WHEN PEOPLE VIOLATE TH
CONDITIONS OF PROBATION OR
COMMIT CRIMES, THEY NEED TO GO
TO PRISON.
>> IS IT BETTER THESE OFFENDER
ARE IN H.O.P.E. PROBATION WHIC
IN THEORY HAS MORE OVERSIGHT
MORE REQUIREMENTS FOR CHECKING
IN, MORE DRUG TESTING THAN
REGULAR PROBATION?
>> JUST BY HAVING THEM DO DRUG
TESTING IS NOT SUPERVISION
IT'S ONE FORM OF SUPERVISION
BUT IT'S NOT ENOUGH.
>> Reporter: NOT ENOUGH HE SAYS,
BECAUSE EVEN THOUGH IT'S BEE
RARE, HE'S SEEN ABOUT A HALF
DOZEN OFFENDERS ON H.O.P.E
PROBATION CHARGED WITH SERIOUS
CRIMES LIKE RAPE AND MURDE
SINCE HE TOOK OFFICE IN 2010
>> THERE HAVE BEEN SOM
INSTANCES OF PEOPLE COMMITTING
VERY SERIOUS CRIMES WHILE PART
OF THE H.O.P.E. PROGRAM,
INCLUDING MURDER
DO THOSE PEOPLE BELONG IN
PROBATION PROGRAM OR SHOULD THEY
HAVE BEEN SENT TO PRISON T
BEGIN WITH
>> IF WE ALL HAD CRYSTAL BALLS
THEY MIGHT HAVE BEEN SENT TO
PRISON
IN THE CASES I'M AWARE OF LIKE
THAT, THEY WERE PUT ON
PROBATION, SAY, FOR POSSESSION
OF A SMALL AMOUNT OF DRUGS
THERE'S NO QUESTION SOME PEOPL
ON H.O.P.E. WILL GET CHARGED
WITH CRIMES, SOME PEOPLE O
REGULAR PROBATION WILL B
CHARGED WITH CRIMES.
THE PEOPLE ON H.O.P.E. ARE BEING
CHARGED WITH CRIMES A LOT LESS
OFTEN.
>> Reporter: MANY ARE SHAPING UP
AND GETTING OFF PROBATION.
THE DAY WE VISITED, FOUR
SUCCESSFUL H.O.P.E. PROBATIONERS
WERE DISCHARGED.
>> THE MOTION FOR EARL
TERMINATION IS GRANTED
YOU'RE NO LONGER UNDER COURT
SUPERVISION BECAUSE YOU'VE SHOWN
YOU CAN BE RESPONSIBLE
>> WE WANT PEOPLE TO DECIDE, I
CAN HAVE A LIFE WITHOUT DRUGS.
I CAN HAVE A LIFE WITHOU
COMMITTING CRIMES.
>> BEST OF LUCK TO YOU IN TH
FUTURE
>> THANK YOU
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> THAT'S WHAT IT'S ALL ABOUT.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR.
>>> LEARN ABOUT OTHE
ALTERNATIVE PATROL PROGRAM
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> FOR ALL THE TALK ABOUT
GRIDLOCK IN WASHINGTON, THERE'
GROWING BIPARTISAN SUPPORT FOR A
PLAN THAT HAS GOTTEN LITTL
ATTENTION, THAT IS TO CUT OF
PUBLIC FUNDING FOR THE NATIONA
POLITICAL CONVENTIONS.
MOLLY HOOPER, A REPORTER FOR THE
HILL HAS BEEN WORKING ON THE
STORY.
I SPOKE WITH HER EARLIER FRO
WASHINGTON
HOW MUCH PUBLIC FUNDING IS THERE
THAT GOES FOR THESE CONVENTION
AND WHAT ARE THEY PROPOSING TO
DO WITH IT
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW, AS OF 2012
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE PAID $36
MILLION BETWEEN THE TWO MAJO
PARTY CONVENTIONS, BUT THE MONEY
THAT THE REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS WANT TO USE WOUL
ACTUALLY BE FUNDING A TEN-YEAR
RESEARCH INITIATIVE FO
PEDIATRIC HEALTH ISSUES, AND
THAT MONEY WOULD BE $126 MILLION
OVER THAT PERIOD OF TIME
SO THAT WOULD ENCAPSULATE TW
POLITICAL CONVENTIONS.
>> OKAY.
SO RIGHT NOW ABOUT A QUARTER O
THE POLITICAL CONVENTIONS COME
FROM OUR POCKETS AND THE RES
FROM SPONSORS?
>> YES, SPONSORS
IT'S ACTUALLY A LOOPHOLE THA
THE PARTIES HAVE FOUND WHERE YOU
GO TO THESE CONVENTIONS EVER
FOUR YEARS, SHOW UP IN THE CIT
AND THERE'S A HOST COMMITTEE
THAT HOST COMMITTEE CAN TAKE
UNLIMITED AMOUNT OF MONEY FROM
CORPORATE SPONSORS
THE LAW WAS ORIGINALLY WRITTEN
SO CORPORATIONS COULD NO
ESSENTIALLY BUY POLITICA
PARTIES.
SO YOU SEE MEMBERS UP ON CAPITOL
HILL SAYING, YOU KNOW, THESE
EVENTS, NUMBER ONE, NOT A LOT OF
NEWS IS MADE AT THE EVENTS
THEY'RE FOUR-DAY PEP RALLIES
WHY ARE WE USING TAXPAYE
DOLLARS TO PAY FOR IT?
IT WON'T BE VERY DIFFICULT FOR
THEM TO RAISE THE MONEY TO MAK
UP FOR THE DIFFERENCE.
SO ORIGINAL THINK THIS BILL WA
GOING TO JUST GIVE THE MONEY
RIGHT BACK TO THE TREASURY
BUT HOUSE MAJORITY LEADER ERIC
CANTOR SAID, WAIT A SECOND, WE
CAN USE IT FOR PEDIATRIC
RESEARCH
>> SO WHAT ARE THOSE WHO ARE O
THE SIDE OF PUBLIC FINANCING
SAY?
ARE THEY CONCERNED THIS COUL
TURN IN TO THE COKE VERSUS PEPSI
CONVENTION
>> OH, YES
WELL, THEY DON'T LIKE IT T
BEGIN WITH
THEY'RE ACTUALLY SAYING THAT GOP
AND DEMOCRATS, THE PEOPLE WH
WANT CORPORATIONS TO ESSENTIALLY
COKE V. PEPSI CONVENTION T
HAPPEN, THEY'RE SAYING THIS IS
JUST A FIG LEAF.
THE PROPONENTS OF ENDING THE
PUBLIC FINANCING, ALL THEY'R
DOING IS WRAPPING IT UP IN THI
BILL FOR KIDS RESEARCH WHE
REALLY, IN FACT, IT'S JUST A
AUTHORIZING BILL AND WON'T
NECESSARILY APPROPRIATE TH
FUNDS FOR THOSE KIDS' RESEARCH
INITIALLY.
>> MOLLY HOOPER JOINING US FRO
WASHINGTON, D.C., A REPORTER FOR
THE HILL
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> THIS IS PBS "NEWSHOU
WEEKEND" SUNDAY.
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, NEW
THINKING IN BRITAIN ABOUT
PROBLEM THAT AFFECTS MILLIONS OF
AMERICAN FAMILIES AS WELL.
HOW TO TREAT PEANUT ALLERGIES IN
CHILDREN
NINA NINAR OF ITV NEWS REPORTS
>> SCHOOL DINNERS, EATING OUT,
WERE ALL EXPERIENCES 11-YEAR-OLD
ELENA HAD TO APPROACH WITH
EXTREME CAUTION.
NOW THE VERY FOOD THAT COULD
MAKE HER SERIOUSLY ILL HAS
HELPED HER EAT WITH CONFIDENCE
FOR THE LAST YEAR SHE'S BEEN FED
SMALL DOSES OF PEANUTS TO HELP
HER OVER COME THE ALLERGY.
NOW ALL BUT GONE ARE THE
SYMPTOMS SHE SUFFERED.
>> USUALLY MY LIP SWELLS UP, M
SONG GOES FUZZY, TINGLY AND
START WHEEZING
IF IT DOESN'T GO DOURNGS I COULD
DIE OR SOMETHING
>> >> Reporter: HALF A MILLION
PEOPLE IN THE U.K. HAVE TH
PEANUT ALLERGY AND THERE ARE
LOTS OF FOODS THEY HAVE TO AVOID
FOR FEAR OF A POTENTIALLY FATA
REACTION
RESEARCHERS IN CAMBRIDGE
DEVELOPED A FORM OF IMMUNO
THERAPY, EXTRACTING THE PROTEI
FROM THE NUTS AND FEEDING SMAL
AMOUNTS TO SUFFERERS INCREASIN
THE DOSE SLOWLY AND BUILDING U
A TOLERANCE TO THE FOOD.
>> THIS IS A WELL-KNOW
TREATMENT FOR OTHER ALLERGIES.
WE KNOW IT WORKS
WE'VE BEEN RELUCTANT UNTIL
RECENTLY TO TRY THIS WITH FOODS,
ESPECIALLY PEANUTS BECAUSE O
THE PERCEPTION THAT THIS IS
REALLY SEVERE DISEASE.
>> Reporter: THE STUDY INVOLVE
99 YOUNG PEOPLE AGES 7-16.
BY THE END, UP TO 90% OF
PARTICIPANTS COULD TOLERATE 80
MILLIGRAMS OF PEANUT PROTEIN
THAT'S A EQUIVALENT OF EATIN
FIVE PEANUTS A DAY
RESEARCHERS ARE NOW PLANNING T
OPEN A SPECIAL CLINIC HERE A
THE HOSPITAL WITHIN THE NEXT 1
MONTHS
BUT FURTHER TRIALS ARE NEEDED,
AND IT COULD BE ANOTHER FIVE
YEARS BEFORE TREATMENT IS MORE
WIDELY AVAILABLE
>>> DON'T FORGET TO JOIN GWE
IFILL AND JUDY WOODRUF
ON THE NEWS HOUR TOMORROW.
THAT'S IT FOR EDITION OF PBS
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.